# Svalbard
## What is a pseudorandom number generator?
A pseudorandom number generator (PRNG) is an algorithm that uses mathematical formulas to produce sequences of numbers that seem random. The pseudorandom sequence is not truly random, because it is completely determined by an initial value, called the ***seed***. However, it's interesting how a seed seems to contain the information necessary to generate an infinite sequence of seemingly unrelated numbers.

## What is a linear combination?
A linear combination is an expression constructed from a set of terms by multiplying each term by a constant and adding the results.

## What if you could express a signal as a linear combination of pseudorandom sequences?
If you somehow only wanted to express a signal identical to one generated by a specific seed, you could only store the seed value. Obviously, it's extremely unlinkely that you will want to express that specific signal. However, what if your signal could be expressed not through a single pseudorandom sequence, but by a linear combination of pseudorandom sequences.

## How can you find the optimal terms of the linear combination so as to express the signal with the highest possible fidelity?
That is finally the subject of this repository. I explored 2 very different approaches of identifying the optimal coefficients for each pseudorandom sequence: genetic algorithms and supervised machine learning.

## How does the genetic algorithm work?
We define an *individual* as a list of coefficients for the linear combination. We create a *population* of random individuals. We then use the evolutionary operators: selection, crossover, and mutation, in order to *evolve* the population in order to find better and better solutions for expressing the signal.

## How does the supervised machine learning approach work?
We define a set of random lists of coefficients. We then generate the signal based on each one of them. We then train a neural network to map the signal to the lists of coefficients.

## How did the experiments work exactly?
1. Generate multiple lists of 10 coefficients and homologous signals of length 100.
2. Try to identify the coefficients based on the signals through different approaches.
3. Regenerate signals from identified coefficients.
4. Evaluate regenerated signal to original signal.

## How do the 2 approaches compare?
The supervised machine learning approach yielded much better results faster, managing to regenerate the signal with just a 0.3% MAE even though it reduced the dimension by 90%.
